# The Principles of Technical Documentation

## Encourage behavior.

It’s not enough to educate your audience; documentation
should center on what you want the reader to do.

## Frontload the payload.

Attention is expensive. Give the answer the reader wants right away.
Continue writing only if clarification is required. Think at the level
of information. What is the actual content of the message, and is each
sentence necessary to impart that message?

## Explanation should be strategic.

Not everything should be explained. Explanation should be used to direct
readers to key points, and to reinforce those points.

## Anticipate questions.

FAQs signal poor documentation. Anticipate questions and make sure their
answers are prominent, clear, and complete.

## Exploit the brain.

Consider neural traction: how do you get the information to stick? For
example, people identify with material terms more than with abstract
terms. Visual words like “red” and “house” fire more neurons than
abstract words like “interface” or “structure” because a large
percentage of the brain is devoted to visual processing. When
constructing examples, include terminology that engages the sensorium
(the sensory apparatus or faculties considered as a whole). Familiar
expressions have the same effect: they are easy to understand, which
allows readers to focus on novelty (i.e. the subject of the
documentation). Similarly, limiting the use of pronouns frees up the
reader’s working memory.

## Target specific audiences.

Are you trying to persuade someone to select your API over others, or
are you assisting someone debugging a function? How does the rhetorical
strategy change if you need to target both audiences?

## Inform future design.

When done well, the process of documentation can illuminate problem
areas, and generate ideas for improvement. Put channels in place to make
use of that feedback.

## Documentation is part of a larger communication apparatus.

Consider whether documentation is the correct (or only) place for
certain types of information. Critical changes to a process or a
codebase, for example, should also be broadcast to stakeholders.

## Prioritize the narrative.

The big picture must come before the details. Readers learn faster once they
have a grasp on the story.
